let's make your e-com brand Rich okay
enough of that that was pretty corny but
this is most definitely the most
important video that I have ever made
we're talking about the e-commerce email
automations that have made me and my
clients $15 million over the past few
years now these automated emails you can
set up once the ones I'm showing you
exactly in this video you set them up
once and they're going to be generating
you around 20% of your total Shopify
Revenue without even lifting a finger
we're talking about the welcome flow the
side abandoned flow browse abandon card
abandon checkout abandon post purchase
and win back flows these flows even for
one of our clients were're generating
over 700 $1,000 every single month and
you get access just by sitting through
this video I know you've been watching
Tik Tok though so your attention span is
a little bit short so I'm going to try
to get through this as fast as possible
so let's get right into it okay so the
e-commerce email flow Playbook copy and
paste these systems to generate 20% of
your total Shopify revenue from these
automated emails let's get into it so
again I've generated $50 million with
these automated emails you can take a
look at some of our results our website
well cop.net and what we've generated
for our partners but you can see some of
the results here by implementing these
exact systems I'm showing you I promise
that this stuff is legit so just watch
this video in full you will not regret
it and most importantly Implement these
strategies it means nothing if you just
sit here and watch this video so make
sure that you implement these uh there's
some information on me if you want it
whatever but inside I'm giving you the
exact copy and paste email flow system
that we have used for our clients comes
with in-depth breakdowns email examples
videos on caveo installation everything
and if you actually want this dock just
go to well cop.net flows it's also going
to be linked in the description you can
get this full doc for yourself but first
let's talk about about why this is
important okay so let's break this down
so profits are steadily decreasing with
rising cost of acquisition across the
e-commerce industry now customers aren't
just visiting your site right away and
buying on the spot like they kind of
used to and there's just increased
resistance and there are thousands of
other brands in your industry that the
customer wants to look at Shopify drop
shippers so much more stores so much
more competition and if you don't have
warming in exposure mechanisms like
email in place to convert your customers
cheaply you're just going to suffer from
low profit ility and you're probably not
going to exist in a few years so we can
kind of see like the evolution of the
market here 2020 and 2023 the
government's just printing money people
had stimulus checks consumers were
buying anything and Ecom Brands just
felt Rich so what happens new Ecom
Brands just start multiplying and then
now we're kind of in 2024 2025 people
have less money it's a little bit more
of a bare Market people have less cash
they don't have these stimulus checks
consumers are also more skeptical and
they're buying less and Ecom Brands make
less money Ecom Brands who continue as
usual they're just going to fizzle out
with the Ecom Brands who actually focus
on profit these are the ones that are
going to thrive and you can't just rely
on ads anymore ads are getting more
expensive you need to have some systems
in plays like email and the automated
emails that I'm going to show you in
this video because email is cheap as
heck so if you already have flows I
don't care this applies to you maybe you
have your base email flows live such as
like welcome flow check out AB Bandon
post purchase and maybe a few others
they're likely only a few email long
maybe three to four emails sometimes
less sometimes more but the real kicker
the signs and copy probably haven't been
updated since since we were required to
wear masks outside ouch but so flows
need to be updated with the times Trends
and optimized as the brand in the
customer changes so a lot of times I
talk to Brands I talk to usually around
10 brands a week they're like yes we
have flows don't worry about that but
then the flows are just like Dad
underperforming so make sure you
implement these systems okay so what are
flows and again I know I'm moving fast
put this on 50% speed if you need to but
I want to make sure that your short
attention span can last through this
whole thing so flows flows are a series
of emails sent to a recipient after they
complete a specified action so for
example somebody abandons a cart after
somebody abandons a cart you can have
emails set up so that after someone
abandons a cart there's a sequence of
emails in a journey that the customer
gets sent to to try to get them to to
convert so these defer from campaigns
which are sent manually if I want to
send an email campaign I can create it
right now and then I can click Send send
it to my whole email list flows you
click active and then any time someone
completes an action they will start
firing so that's kind of like the main
difference between flows and campaigns
and typically you want 50% of your
revenue from flows and 50% from
campaigns campaigns I have another video
on that I'll link it in the
description but why use flows more money
who doesn't like more money you saw the
result from the results from having
these Flows at the beginning of this
video but flows also are contributing to
the customer experience via
personalization different customers are
at different parts of the customer
journey and they need different
information based on where they're at so
set this up once and orders will come
automatically every single day and and
also you're just contributing to the
customer experience by giving them
information based on where they're at
now any Shopify or any email platform uh
you'll have the ab ability to set these
up using triggers that fire on Shopify
so whether you're using MailChimp clavio
whatever use clavio but uh whatever
you're using there will be an you'll be
able to do these but let's get straight
into flows okay so I want to start by
saying just nail the
basics nail the basics just focus on the
basics that's what's going to drive 80%
of the results so this brand below which
I'm showing right here uh this is a
1-month span $133,000 plus 29% they
wanted all these crazy Advanced cross
sales upsell splits but they didn't even
have their abandoned carard flow set up
correctly their welcome flow was one
email like we we can't go to this
advanced stuff until we nail the basics
the basics carry 80% of the revenue we
just focused on the basics and after one
month took them from $45,000 a month to
$133,000 a month with the exact flow
strategy that I'm sharing with you in
this video the exact strategy okay let's
just nail the basics we're not doing
anything particularly crazy okay so
let's talk about What flows we're
implementing now I love the advanced
automations cross sales upses whatever
and I wish I could tell you like oh this
is so complicated yeah you can't do this
on your own uh work with me and we'll
implement it for you no you really don't
need that the advanced hypers
segmentation stuff takes a lot of effort
for not as many results as just nailing
the basics so the base flows the basics
welcome flow 0 m site abandoned flow
someone goes to your site and then they
leaves one one email browse abandoned
flow someone views a product and then
they leave five emails card abandoned
flow someone adds to their cart and then
leaves 6 to 8 emails check out abandon
flow someone goes to checkout and then
leaves 6 to 8 emails then a post
purchase flow after somebody purchases
and then a wi back flow somebody bought
multiple months ago and we want to get
them to come back that's the wind back
flow so those are the basics and this is
what we are covering in this video we're
going to be breaking down each flow
right here now I know that was a lot but
now let's actually get into the juicy
stuff and all of this now I know again
you can go to my website well copy.
netflows and then you can get this whole
document for free okay let's start off
with the welcome flow so what is the
welcome flow it's 4 to 10 emails set up
for when somebody joins your email list
okay now why do we want to have this set
up we want to deliver the welcome
discount because more often than not
you're going to be running a discount
for your acquisition offer and I know
it's like oh we don't want to send
discounts for this first purchase it's
really helpful to have this discount
you'll make it that you'll make it back
by having them on your email list and
being able to continually sell for them
trust me it's worth it it's why some of
the top brands do it in the fastest
growing Ecom Brands like Ridge Dr
Squatch athetic greens everything it's
why they do it okay follow what the good
brands are doing you want to deliver the
welcome discount educate them on your
brand showcase your products that's
really it deliver a strong introduction
so how the trigger just somebody joins
your email list and then you want to add
a filter to your flow um and that's what
this section is going to be the filter
so inside of clavo whatever platform
you're using this is the filter that you
want to do so a filter is going to
remove people if they kind of if they
don't follow into this so we want to
have a filter that says someone makes a
purchase zero times since starting this
flow so that if somebody does purchase
say on email three of the welcome flow
we don't want to send them emails four
five six 7 8 promoting the welcome
discount no we want to remove them and
just add them to the regular campaign
list they're now going to be entered
once they purchase into the postp
purchase flow so quickly gone through
that now let's talk about the different
outcomes of the welcome flow um and
nailing the welcome flow we have two
outcomes two possible outcomes both of
them are positive we convert customers
who were just curious and otherwise
would have left your site but since you
have a really good pop form in place and
you have a really good welcome flow in
place now you're able to actually
convert them they otherwise would have
left so that's outcome a outcome B say
they don't purchase that's okay we have
primed our future customers for
purchases now that all of their
objections have been addressed we're
giving them the proper information
throughout the welcome flow to be able
to give them all the information that
they need to make a purchase and so even
if they don't buy we're still going to
be sending them campaigns to their list
maybe they don't have a dire need for
the product right now let's give them
all the information so that when they
are ready to buy we don't have to
overcome any objections at that time so
those are the two outcomes that we
really want to optimize for then now we
have welcome flow outline email examples
and then installation so this is the
email outline there are eight of these
here you can see there's a trigger and
then a filter at the top here so the
filter this is the clavo filter you want
to use and then the clavio trigger that
you want to use so email one let's just
back out here it's just about giving a
strong introduction we want to deliver
the incentive introduce our brand unique
selling propositions give a little bit
of social proof show our best selling
now sounds like a lot you really want to
keep this pretty condensed and I have an
example for you shortly but keep it
really simple and give a strong
introduction really all we're doing is
giving the discount that's the main
thing and then the rest of the flow
we're going to be giving a little bit
more information on our products and
everything so I like to use one to two
day triggers between these emails um if
you're a little bit skeptical on how
often you're sending then you can change
it to like two to three days um but
typically I air on the side of sending
people more emails so um yeah email to
this is all about giving brand
background so bring people close to the
brand hit on their emotions show them
how you're started all that good stuff
so you want to give a founding story put
a face to the name if you're a founder
or whoever put a picture of your team um
that really goes a long ways because
people don't want to buy from
corporations they want to buy from
people give them the opportunity in this
email to buy from people even if you're
a massive brand you want to make it seem
like you're a small company and people
are um buying from a small company and
supporting a small business that's
marketing right there then also sprinkle
in some social proof in your story talk
about and in the process we've gotten
100,000 F star reviews whatever it may
be you want to sprinkle that in there so
that's email two really just bringing
them close to the brand and email three
let's highlight our products now they've
gotten some heartwarming information on
us now let's hit on some of our products
and show them our best sellers and why
they're so good so that's all email 3 is
highlight some of your best sellers and
of course reminding of the discount in
every single one of these emails now
let's try to get some urgency people
need urgency to buy they don't just they
don't just randomly buy they need some
urgency so we've given them some social
proof we've educated them on the product
now let's remind them of the incentive
being like hey 10% off is expiring soon
you don't get this forever so just a
hard reminder just being like hey this
is almost expiring use your discount now
if you want it um give some risk
reversals like if you have like a 30-day
guarantee use that talk about like your
shipping uh guaranteed shipping whatever
it may be so that there's less risk for
the customer to purchase then also just
at the bottom I like to throw some
testimonials in this email um in case
somebody's on the edge since they
haven't really gone too many
testimonials yeah so I like to do that
then email five US versus them so we
just want to straight directly just
address our competitors versus us how
are we different people want to see how
are we different why should somebody go
versus US versus somebody else they're
probably looking at other brands so we
want to show them exactly why we're
different list that out for them really
clear so distinguish your brand from
others and try to like make it really
clear on why somebody should go with you
so that's that email and then we're
waiting again and then we're going heavy
social proof so this person has enough
information at this point they have
enough information about our brand um
and they have enough information like
about our products now we really want
them to trust that what we're saying is
true so we want to do a heavy social
proof email so do uh brand testimonials
media features if you've been on any
like TV shows whatever just prove you
are legit that's the purpose of this
email because right after that we're
going into a last chance incentive being
super aggressive being like hey last
absolute Last Chance um this expires if
you want to buy now is the time y yada y
keep it super simp simple just last
chance email a I always like to finish
with a note from the founder somebody
joined the email list for an incentive
but then they didn't purchase why is
that I like to reach out do a message
from the founder being like hey this is
Max from well copy just wanted to check
in is everything okay um there's uh
reach out to our support team reply to
this email and we'll address any
questions that you have um and then also
be like also I extended the discount for
one more day if you want to purchase you
can do so again here this email usually
does really well cuz people like oh the
founders reaching out to me wow um and
this this does really well and then you
will get questions from people asking
for support so that is the email flow
mixing in Social approv bestsellers
highlights and kind of giving people
information about us that they need to
purchase after somebody completes this
flow they're just going to go into the
regular email list and they're going to
be receiving campaign so that's the
welcome flow now let's talk about a few
examples so here's like an example of
that first welcome email so you can see
welcome to the fam welcome them in and
then giving them the discount right at
the top of the email we're not waiting
until all the way down here to give them
the discount code a lot of times people
are here just to get the discount and
Lead so show them the discount be like
hey 10% off shop now people are just
going to click this and then go but for
the people who want to learn a little
bit about the brand we have a section
right here talking about what makes us
different special in mixing in some uh
social proof and then showing some
products and then some icons here super
simple here's your discount here's some
information here our best sellers
adios and then we have another example
right here and this one one is like our
story so this is a big brand Nixon 25
years of time starting in enas Yad y
yada you can see um bringing people
closer to the brand trying to show them
like how we um how we defer have like
some branded information up at the top
it's giving people like a reason to back
your product and why people are there
we've made it our mission to clean up
oceans yada y amazing remind of the
discount again and then this is an Us
Versus Them email so you can see what
generic delivery looks like for people
and then what we look like what's the
difference between us and them and then
we deliver more than a meal having some
testimonial social proof and then again
reminding of the discount so super
effective email here for the US and US
versus them email which is email 5 so
here's some examples notice how all of
these have the discount code in it so
make sure you're always reminding of the
discount code and every single one of
your emails inside of the welcome flow
now here's a video on clavio
installation if you want to watch this
and see exactly how to install it inside
of clavia then take the doc link is in
the description so that is the welcome
flow let's move on to the site abandoned
flow okay so the site abandoned flow now
there are two reasons that somebody may
enter this flow and again what it is
it's an email setup for when somebody
visits your site but they don't click
any product they don't view a product
they don't do anything they just go on
your homepage or whatever so somebody
could enter this flow because they
didn't find a product they liked that's
one or they got distracted while
browsing your site either way we want to
remind them and nudge them to get back
to browsing to get them to purchase so
one email set up for when somebody
visits your site now why we just want to
offer them a helping hand and try to
bring them down the funnel get them to
view a product it's really hard to get
people to view your site um and somebody
might view your site maybe a couple
times a year so we want to make sure
that when somebody does we're giving
them information and we're trying to get
them back so trigger active on site is
the trigger inside of clavo and Shopify
um and then the filters that you want to
have in this flow um to make sure you're
going to kick somebody out if they don't
reach these so somebody views a product
somebody views a prodct we're kicking
them out someone adds to cart we're
kicking them out if someone goes to
checkout we're kicking them out and if
somebody makes a purchase we're kicking
them out because they're going to go
into the other flows which we're going
to cover later in this video like the
checkout abandon flow somebody goes to
checkout we want them to enter the
checkout abandon flow so that somebody's
getting information specific to check
out and also has not been in this flow
in the last 30 days is something that I
like to add in case people are so people
aren't repeatedly seeing this email so
flow outline you can see the trigger and
then the filter um and I like to wait
two to four hours I found that to be the
best it's good to test this um but just
one email just like do you need some
help remind someone to keep shopping and
then show them the best sellers super
simple don't go over the top on this
email so you can see a couple of
examples right here uh lost in choices
let us point you in the right direction
show some bestsellers maybe some social
proof then maybe some categories if
somebody wants to shop by category and
you can also see some social proof here
so really good example here just
addressing hey are you lost same thing
here need a helping hand you're are fan
favorites um giving people the
opportunity to continue shopping uh is
really what we want to do in this email
and just re-engage them super duper
simple you can see clavio installation
again here the trigger is just active on
site nothing crazy right here active on
site set up one email um for people who
just browse the site okay I went too
fast there but browse abandoned flow now
let's talk about the browse abandon flow
so this flow fires when somebody views a
product but they don't end up adding the
C going to check out or buying now there
are number of reasons why somebody may
do this but in most cases because
they're not fully bought in on the brand
or the product so they viewed an item
they clicked the page they didn't add it
to cart or anything so our purpose of
this flow is to get them farther down to
funnel get them to add to cart go to
checkout or purchase so we want to get
them to go back to the item or find a
different product that they like more CU
maybe the one they viewed they they
didn't fully like they want something
else so 3day email set up for when
somebody views a product but they don't
go any further down the funnel um why we
want toind them and we want to Intrigue
them on the product and give social
proof so that they can purchase that's
why we're doing it we want to remind
them Intrigue them maybe they got
distracted get them back into the funnel
so trigger somebody views a product so
the trigger in clavio is viewed product
and then the filter add to cart zero
times goes to check out zero times makes
a purchase zero times and has not been
in this flow in the last 30 days now
let's talk about the flow outline so
nothing too too crazy here five emails
you can see the triggers and filters
here right off the bat I like to wait 45
minutes you again be sure that you test
this um these are all things that you
want to test these are just base
outlines I'm not saying these are the
best emails to include these are the
ones that most often are going to be the
best bases but every brand is different
you need to be testing so we like to
just do a simple reminder just remind of
the product and show the abandoned
content that the person left behind so
this is what you can do in any email
platform uh in clavio you want to have a
block that shows exactly exactly what
the person left behind if I looked at a
coffee mug I want to show the customer
who abandoned that item I want to show
them that exact coffee mug how much it
is that really is going to grab their
attention so make sure we're waiting uh
45 minutes and doing a simple reminder
then you can see one to two day uh time
frames in between this you don't want to
wait a week that's too long we have
somebody's Intrigue they just browse
item we want to hit them fast while we
have their attention so email 2 is then
brand info and risk reversals so they
saw the product now we want to actually
get them to like buy back into the brand
so use a branded headline to Peak
Interest and then risk reversals and
then also show other products that they
can shop so whatever you want to do here
just brand info risk reversals um try to
make sure that they have all the
information they need to purchase and
then we're getting into testimonials
more social proof get them to buy in to
us being reputable because that's really
going to be one of the main objections
for this so list testimonials and social
proof and then of course show the
dynamic content which we want to be
doing in every single email um and then
we move to a discount um I don't like to
offer a discount right off the bat in
the flow cuz what if we can convert them
without the discount we want to retain
our margins so then we introduce a
discount being like hey 10% off complete
your order flash 48 Hour Discount um so
we try to get them um with some urgency
and then we just have a closer message
again being like hey this expires in 24
hours keep these emails super duper
simple and just remind them over the
discount you can see some email examples
the
hell okay and you can see some email
examples here um you can see how simple
it is something catch your eye we save
your gear for you back to store you
button way up at the top of the email
and you can have clavio sections which
are going to dynamically show the
products that the person left behind so
shop now then you may also like these
recommended products inside of clavio so
you can use blocks inside of clavio to
dynamically pull products from your site
and so that's really what we're doing
here in the en clavio section again is
showing exactly what the person left
behind on clavio you'll see it you
should use Dynamic block or use one of
their flow outlines so this is like a
great browse abandoned email 1 just
super simple did this catch your eye
continue shopping and then we have one
where it's like overcoming risks and
objections so get a full refund if
you're not satisfied with our heal fast
guarantee free two-day shipping trusted
by doctors easy return and money back
guarantee I banon an item I would go
back to browsing because there's zero
risk absolutely zero risk right here and
then the enclav uh Dynamics section
super super good exactly what you need
for that like email two or three um and
then we have like a testimonial email
right here so this product is great easy
installed y yada testimonial right at
the top showing the product again that
the person left behind and then more
testimonials right here to really give
uh social proof on the item that the
person left behind so those are the
examples and then we have installation
right here is also going to show you the
dynamic sections um that you should be
using and how they how they should be
looking so go get the dock inside of the
description if you want to see that and
moving right along we have the cart and
check out abandoned flow so these are
actually two separate flows so this is
very important this is this might be a
little bit confusing but somebody adding
to cart clicking the add to cart button
is different than somebody going to the
actual checkout page where they're
putting in their credit card information
those are two different things you need
to have different flows for them in
terms of like different firing we use
the same exact content often times for
the cart and checkout abandoned flows
same emails but just different triggers
so that people who abandon cart and
abandoned checkout are getting
information now a lot of the brands I
audit don't have a card abandoned flow
this is something where people think
their check out abandoned flow is their
card abandoned flow so make sure the
trigger is somebody's added to cart
you've probably heard of these flows and
for good reason um if you don't have
them properly set up and optimized
you're literally leaving money from the
on the table from people who were in the
process of purchasing they were so close
a lot of times they just need a reminder
so we wanted to just have 3 to eight
emails set up for when somebody abandons
a product in their cart now we just want
to remind them show them how awesome our
product is give social proof and reverse
risk so that we can get a purchase so
two different uh filters here so we have
um placees order makes purchase zero
times that one isn't necessary but place
it order zero times uh for card
abandoned but also checkout started
because if somebody goes to checkout
that's farther down the funnel they're
going to enter the checkout abandoned
flow so somebody adds to cart versus
somebody starts checkout again these are
two different things these are two
different flows 90% of the brands I
audit do not have a proper card to
Bandon flow it's a staggering number but
they don't because Clay's abandoned cart
flow is often Incorrect and you need to
fix it they're they if you have a store
that's been on clavo for longer than a
couple months then they don't they don't
have this for you they recently in I
believe it was September 2024 um they
added it with their Shopify integration
the abandoned cart trigger um but they
hadn't they didn't have it before so you
needed to custom ADD it but now you can
um but more often than not brands have a
check out abandoned but they don't have
abandoned card there's a Blog right here
which will guide you um the link is
right there so abandoned cart look at
this user adds an item to cart so if I
was on Magic spoons website and I click
add to cart this little thing pulls up
and it's like here's your cart if I were
to exit the site right now um then I
likely wouldn't receive anything because
most brands don't have a card Bandon
flow this is a Bandon checkout you're
putting in your information your
shipping um all that your payment method
you're actually like on the payment page
this is a abandoned
checkout very different banon checkout
is farther down the funnel so we need to
understand this and have flows for each
one so same exact content you can see
them here same exact content okay so
this might be a little bit difficult for
you to read um but I can read it um you
have the triggers and filters here but I
like to wait 30 minutes in this first
email and then one to two days for the
rest so this first email just reminder
Remind of the product very simple to
browser band and keep it super simple
hey you left this behind shop now and
then we want to go to a nudge from the
founder we've talked about the founder
message in the welcome flow very
effective in the card abandoned flow
here so I like to do text based Emos
just reaching out from the founder being
like hey you left something behind you
should rethink that because we are
really awesome so you really just want
to keep it super simple and remind them
of uh the product that they left behind
okay I have this zoomed in so you can
see it a little bit better but card
abandon flow and checkout abandon are
the same content so let's just go
through through this so that you can see
it so again nudge from the founder
remind of the product give some brief
brand info and hey shop now then we want
to go to Brand unique selling
propositions educate them on the brand
remind them that their order is expiring
just list out like your brand unique
selling propositions why should somebody
go with you rather than somebody else so
a lot of times people will be shopping
at other stores as well at the same time
so that's why we want to have this email
to just remind them that hey we're
different for these reasons and this is
why you should pick us then email 4 so
we talked about how our brand is
different now it's let our customers
talk we're just doing testimonials so
testimonial based email um giving social
proof and then the dynamic abandoned
content and then let's do a last chance
email ory on your order hey your item's
about to expire we can't hold your cart
for you much longer there are other
people who want it um so then we're just
hitting
urgency so then what we're doing here if
somebody has purchased before we're just
going to send them a message from the
founder we're not going to send them a
discount whereas if they haven't
purchased before let's send them a
discount so we're just going to wait
again and have another note from the
founder reminding them of the offer and
offering support being reminding them of
their order and offering support and
giving them a last chance to order so
okayy this is the founder of the brand I
wanted to reach out make sure that
everything was okay I saw you had an
order lined up but you didn't purchase
you should and if you don't if you uh
have any questions about your product
then let us know reply to this email
just something like that you can see
that's also the same email right here
but we're introducing two discount
emails a discount opener and then a
discount closer just flash discount hey
15% off your order um only when you buy
within the the next 48 hours and then
down at the bottom here which you can't
see cuz it was cut off but we have an
everything okay email where we're pretty
much just saying like hey
um uh same thing from the founder but
again reminding of the discount giving
them a last chance so those are the cart
and check out abandon flows same content
for each but different setups inside of
clavo with different triggers so you can
see very similar uh setup as your um
browse abandon flow emails we want to
have the clavio dynamic section up at
the top you can see like some social
proof or brand um brand unique selling
propositions here addressing hey
forgetting something then also we have a
testimonial email here giving
testimonials for the product that the
person left behind uh right at the top
of the email showing the product and
then having the clavio dynamic section
and then social proof all throughout and
then just like a last chance your order
is expiring email so just being very
urgent with hey your order's expiring
shop now onee warranty have some social
proof and risk reversals right here and
then you may also like these in case
somebody wants to shop other items so
caveo installation we have different
ones here for abandoned cart and
abandoned checkout which you can watch
in the video in the description okay
then this leads us to the post-p
purchase flow all of that stuff is pre-
purchase it's considered pre- purchase
um now we have post purchase flow so
right after somebody makes an order so
right after someone makes a purchase now
there are many many many directions that
you can go with this flow and so kind of
like let that influence what you want to
do with these Emos so you could focus on
like Community Building you could focus
on upselling and cross selling you could
focus on getting the customer excited
for the order pushing for a review etc
etc etc I like to keep it simple and try
not to do too too much um but we really
just want to improve the customer
experience with a heartfelt thank you
build the community and then inform them
on how to get the most out of their
product so four plus emails you really
don't need four you can do like three um
that's completely fine I'm pretty sure
in this one we do three um so you can do
three emails send after somebody places
an order I recommend adding more this is
just like a base um but like three is
fine but you can't add more so you want
to just thank them sincerely for their
order means the world this going to
remove buyers remorse and also like get
them excited that's something that we
want to do we want to give them a light
nudge to add to their order and we also
want to get a review after this flow
after somebody gets their items so the
trigger it's just somebody places an
order and then the filter we don't
really need a filter here um CU we want
everybody to receive this so for the
flow outline wait 0 minutes after placed
order and then we have a thank you from
the founder immediate thank you Tech
space from the founder being like hey
thank you so much for placing an order
this is our mission and you've just
contributed to the mission means the
world to us this goes such a long ways
and also you just want to offer support
to this as well um so that people know
people know that they can reach out to
you if they have any questions so this
goes a very very long ways and also you
can have like a PS you can add to your
order um and this goes again for this
goes a long ways um in getting immediate
purchases this is a very big window for
somebody to buy they just bought
why not add something else and so this
is a this can be a really big money
driver if you have this in place but a
lot of the brands I audit do not have
this in place and I highly recommend you
do and then wait two days follow us on
socials or what other plat whatever
other platforms that you use promote
your main social media platform or
whatever you're using maybe have a
Facebook group whatever it is this is a
good email just to get anybody who's
bought from you to grow your community
so really good to have this email and
then wait 3 days how to get the most
from your product so this is going to
help them them get excited help them you
know see the best results with your
product so um give them tips on how to
use it um how to install it or how to
apply it whatever it may be um maybe if
you're selling food products you give
somebody like um uh like recipes that's
something that you can do like how to
how to use the product here a few
examples so here's like a good um text
based email immediate thank you from the
founder so you want to use the person's
first name and then you can talk a bit
about your mission you placing your
order reminds us so much that we're
reaching our goals if you have any
questions feel free to reply to this uh
email you're not done with your order
you can add in the next 24 hours
continue shopping so that's a great
immediate thank you message um and then
you can also have this social media
email make sure to follow us on social
media we have the best community of
customers we couldn't be more thankful
for give us a follow on social media and
then just a simple follow this is going
to passively just grow your um grow your
following so that you can continue have
great continue to have a great community
and then you can have an email like this
like how to get the most out of your
product or are you excited things like
that um so are you excited uh shop now
here's how to get the most out of your
product so now we're giving tips about
um how to make sure that you're using
the product effectively so incorporate
in your daily routine track your
progress listen to your body and pair it
with other proven supplements so that's
the upsell where we're trying to get
people to um buy again so then we're
using cio's recommended product section
um based on the customer's activity
clavio is going to give some
recommendations on what products to add
so we're using Clo's uh Dynamic section
here so this could be a great flow right
here if it was all for one brand rather
than different ones um so this is all
stuff that you can do follow us on
social media and then how to get the
most out of your product is going to
really help for the customer Journey CIO
installation right here a video for if
you uh if you want that and now we are
on the win back flow okay this is the
last one very straightforward in terms
of the win back flow we just want to
encourage another purchase from past
customers they bought a few months ago
let's get them to buy again so really
don't overthink this one your customers
are still receiving your email campaigns
that you're sending to the list again I
recommend 3 to four email campaigns per
week at least two per week keep your
list engaged um a lot of people are
going to be converting from these your
win back flow um it's kind of more just
for experience um because a lot of
people are going to be buying from your
campaigns so we recommend that that's
the three to four campaigns a week 99%
of your retention and repeat purchases
will come from that so we like to keep
the win back flow simple and more for
customer experience so what you can do
up to 10 plus re-engagement emails if
you want if you're not really sending
too many campaigns but I recommend just
like three emails sent 60 days 90 days
120 days whatever you want for somebody
to make a purchase typically if your
average time between purchases is like
45 days I like to double that and that's
when the wind back flow fires so the
average purchase is 45 days we would um
average time between purchases 45 days
we would fire on 90 days so that's what
I would highly recommend um and then why
we want to encourage rep people
purchases to increase LTV um that's the
main thing encourage repeat purchases um
and then remind them to replenish and
give recommendations make them feel
custom like we're reaching out so
trigger you can do somebody places an
order equal to 60 days ago um and then
filter someone makes a purchase in
starting this flow somebody makes a
purchase we want to remove them um so
that's how this flow is going to fire so
so here is how the flow outline looks
just three emails you can wait 90 days
60 days 120 days whatever you want to do
email one you can just say It's been a
just remind them of the brand and
encourage them to come back for purchase
so super s just be like hey it's been a
while we miss you something like that
that sort of messaging don't need to get
too crazy just let them know that like
hey we recognize that it's been a while
and then you want to wait like a week
you can wait whatever time frame I like
to set them like a week apart um and
then give them a discount to repeat to
just have a discount in the customer
Journey um just like automated to try to
get these people to buy again so just
make them feel special make it a unique
discount um a dynamic clave discount
what you can do um which will be custom
for each person makes them feel special
and those convert better um so that's
something that you can do then you want
to do another text based email from the
founder as a last chance being like hey
it's been a while we miss you I
understand that like um things get busy
um this is the last chance to use this
discount and I hope to see you again um
something like that is like a text-based
last chance so here like some examples
here's like a first email example of
just like we miss you and your furry
friend for like a cat brand um super fun
funny we miss you sad cat cutest thing
ever where are you what's new um so you
can tell the customer like hey we have a
lot of new stuff that you're missing out
on so why don't you view the site and so
lots of cool stuff I love this little
feature the cat at the footer it's
really funny and then uh still
interested this is another thing that
you can do um hey are you still
interested we noticed it's been a while
and we just wanted to check in are you
still interested in our gear shop now
kind of giving people guilt um that's
something that you can do as well then
have a recommended clavio section based
on like a customer's last purchase again
super helpful tool from Cavo and then
giving somebody the opportunity to shop
different categories and then just a
discount email you're still on our mind
here's a special gift to welcome you
back take 10% off your next story on us
then you have a clayo code right here
find your story and then don't miss out
don't miss out new favorites awaiting
simple email of hey 10% off this is
beautiful design um so lots of stuff
that you can do here um and then caveo
installation is right here as well but
that covers all of the flows and what
we're setting up now we can take it a
step further and go to like flow
optimization so the cons of optimization
in updating your flows over time and
testing it is it's overwhelming it's
very hard to monitor at scale if you
have like 40 emails in your flows you
need to have spreadsheets to track all
this information and report it very
difficult and documenting it all is very
difficult so that's the Cons with flow
optimizations where it's campaigns you
can just test your one email and get
data immediately where flows you have to
wait for customers to enter and then you
need to track it when should I check
when something is ready so I like to do
another form of optimization so rather
than having a ton of active tests in our
flows all sorts of different triggers
testing out different content yada yada
y rather than doing all that we use our
campaigns as our testing grab so we're
sending three to four email campaigns
per week and we're testing there we're
looking at the data there we're trying
new angles we're A to B testing so
rather than waiting for results like we
have to do with flows we get instant
data with campaigns or 20 4 Hour data
you send a campaign we'll check on the
results tomorrow what variation did
better or did this angle work compared
to like an email we sent a few months
ago so we literally put out full
campaigns that perform well in our flows
we get a campaign that works let's add
that to our flows so go back and edit
your flow emails across your triggers to
include the angles the emails in the
blast even an email that does well in
your campaigns let's add it if it's an
educational email on like how you create
your products you're you sell creatine
and you um you create an email that you
send to the list that's about like how
we create our creatine or how it's
formulated and it does well converts
well awesome it's educational let's add
that to the welcome flow and just put in
the discount the welcome discount if
it's an email about how to get the most
out of your product giving tips to users
add that to the post purchase flow it's
an email that goes over your return
policy that you send to the list and it
does well add it to your banded cart
flow to reverse risk don't reinvent the
wheel add your successful campaigns to
your email flows this will save you a
ton of time now there are specific AB
test that you can run and I would
recommend running um so I'm going to
quickly go through these you flow time
delays biggest lever in the fastest that
to get results and the easiest to get
results so testing the amount of time
from the action of the customer and the
first email that they receive so this
like website abandoned flow you see
waiting 30 minutes versus waiting 4
hours 30 minutes you get kind of better
engagement uh better open rate and click
rate compared to waiting 4 hours but you
can see the placed order rate is
massively different here and this is a
big sample size we can be pretty
confident that waiting 4 hours is the
best move in this situation so testing
the time delays uh between in your uh
messages then we have like long form
versus short form messaging so do we
create a long email that has a lot of
information or do we create shorter ones
um especially for flows we want to test
this out this will apply to campaigns
but especially in flows like abandonment
flows when people have objections some
people want to be talked through their
objections other people just want to be
like they just need a reminder of their
order um just you saying hey you left an
Adam behind shop now so sometimes it
makes sense to be quick and try to get
purchases other times it makes sense to
really like spend time working through
objections you can see in this email um
a longer nudge um email to let me tell
you why this product is more effective
just listing out a ton of stuff 0.2%
place order rate 2.4% click rate on
2,000 people compared to this one which
did a lot better higher click rates
higher place order rate where it's just
super quick to the point hey you left
this order behind go shop and of course
this is super easy uh um but testing
your subject lines and preview texts um
but hard to take learnings and apply to
Future emails since there's a lot of
variation um some tests that you can run
um including discounts versus not
including like for sales um including
that in the um subject line you could
include or exclude emojis in your
subject line preview text you could test
that you could use dot dot dot or
excluding that um time delays um for
like how long you have less whatever it
may be using all caps verse not this is
all stuff that you can use for your
subject client preview text to test
and then graphic based versus text based
we've talked multiple times about text
based a lot of times it performs better
because it feels more personal um but we
really want to like balance this and
test different things out so heavy text
based versus graphic based it's really
going to vary depending on your account
so test out different styles to see what
your list likes especially for big drops
in sales or whatever you have in your
flows um so mix them up here's an
example of like a text based where the
bottom one is text based it did better
because it was from the founder higher
open rate higher click rate a lot
simpler and then a lot more Revenue so
Tech Bas really can perform a lot better
but we want to make sure that we're
testing these things out promoting
categories ver individual products some
customers at stores prefer like shop
this specific product this specific
product this one rather than categories
where it's like shop jackets shop pants
so it's important to mix it up you can
bias one more if uh one of them does
better like categories in this instance
for like a higher ticket store
categories performed better it got
higher clicks and then higher revenue
and so now for all of our emails we're
primarily making it like more um
category based and we're promoting that
now special offer just for you if you
made it this far um if you want more
information I have templates for all of
these flows um completely templ
completely templatized and optimize that
we've used for over 50 7 to8 figure
e-commerce Brands Shameless plug here if
you want to save all the time of putting
this all together doing all the copy
templates and what not then I have these
all templatized um learn more right here
if you want to click uh blog. copy. net
SL quickflow Landing um you can click
this link will be in the description as
well if that's interesting to you if not
completely fine um it's just going to
take a lot of time to implement this
stuff um so that's stuff that I I would
recommend doing that so check that out
take the doc in the description well
copy.
netflows um so you can have it for you
uh where to find me My Links will be
right here and if you want to have a
chat with me about your email flows then
you can book a call with me the link
will be in the uh description as well to
book a call and your flows head
on now I hope you got some value from
this video that was an absolute value
bomb there was a ton of stuff in there
so I hope you got some value this is $50
million worth of revenue generated
Behind These automations so make sure
you use them lots of good strategies in
here again I hope you got some value
from it and I hope to see you in the
next video let me know if you have
anything that you want me covered and I
will see you in the next one